I'll ask you a few questions about background, maybe a few general questions
about your fiction. All right. And then some specific ones about, you know,
specific books and so forth. Fine. Okay, David, have we got the tape rolling?
We've got the tape rolling. Okay, listen, if you can, I am getting a bad
feedback if you can find a bad echo. I can hardly hear my voice. Let me see.
Hello, test, test. Well, hello to yourself, Ted. Ah, let's see. Try that, see if
that's a little better.
Okay. Testing, one, two, yeah, okay, that'll work. As long as his voice, you got
the tape rolling? Yeah, make sure you hit the yellow button whenever he talks.
All right, you ready? Okay. Okay, tape is rolling. Like I said before, you know,
we edit this, so if you say something you want to take back or try to ask a dumb
question, just stop me. Okay. Okay, one thing I had a problem with, I wasn't
able to find anything. Anything of use to me on your background? Exclusive of
writing. Just, you know, what you do, where you, what you, you know, just
anything about background. Could you just give me a brief statement on that?
Well, let's see. I was a couple of years younger than everybody else. When I got
into the football program, it was, it was more or less foreordained that I was
going to lose a few teams. You know, you don't have a linebacker two years
younger than everybody else without him losing a few parts on the way. It tended
to make me rather aggressive. Anyway, I graduated at 16. It took a year at Texas
Tech. Then, and almost flunked out, actually. I was typically not ready, I
think, for college. I was going in as a chemical engineer. And I changed majors
and went to Fort Worth to TCU. Been another year and a half there as a speech
student and began to do scripts then. I, at that time, had a fairly good idea
that I would be able to write. And I was playing with writing at the time. I
went into the Air Force from TCU and spent four years from 51 to early 55 at
various places around the country. You know, I didn't get shipped overseas.
Then, came to California. Finally got a degree in radio, speech, direction, and
writing. For some strange reason, decided not to do anything with that
immediately, but went into aerospace engineering. And for the next 15 years, I
rose to a not very exciting position, but a senior research engineer. Even
though I had a speech degree. And for the time I was, I would say it was about
1967 or 68, I was deciding several things about the aerospace industry. They
were, you know, really making up at the expense of the ingenious.
Let's say the people that had the ideas were rarely treated all that well. And
the managers were the ones who got most of the benefits after all those ideas.
So I quit doing design work and simply did it in my own home. Went back for a
master's degree at San Jose State while I was still a full-time engineer. And in
the meantime, I built and raced a couple of cars, a post-car type.
Then, decided to go ahead and get a doctorate at the University of Oregon. Left
California. Since then, that's about 12 years ago. And then I got the doctorate.
Taught for a few years at a dreadful mid-western university. Came back to the
West Coast. And found that I could teach and say whatever it is I need to say.
Without anyone, without having to answer to any administrator. So long as I give
a bang-up good yarn in the process. So, there's your thumbnail history. Good,
okay. By the way, at the end of your answers, I'm probably going to pause a
little bit to make sure you're done. It doesn't mean I'm not listening.
Understood. Okay, listen. Did you read science fiction as a youngster? I read a
little science fiction when I was a kid. I recall my granddad switching off of
his old pulp, instant pulp magazine with other railroad engineers and brakemen
and so on. And I would occasionally read some of the pulp magazines either.
Okay. Then, when I was about, oh, I suppose, 12 years old, I discovered Heinlein
and a couple of other science fiction writers that I really did enjoy. And off
and on, through my high school years, I would read science fiction, what is now
analog, it used to be called Astounding. I would read that and not much else.
But by the time I was a college freshman and wanted to get into the sciences and
engineering, I was what you could call a, you know, a modest fan of science
fiction. Okay, you weren't the type then that was a fanatic and put out your own
fanzine and went to conventions and so forth. The first, oh, no, I was never
really a fan. The first science fiction convention I ever went to, a man named
Mark Clifton, who had just won the first Hugo, I believe. He was about the only
man I knew who was a writer. And I had already had a couple of stories told to
Astounding, now Analog magazine. And Mark asked me to come along to a world
con, which happened to be in Southern California's design. I went, I kind of
enjoyed it. But I didn't really make any contact and I didn't go on with it for
very long. I simply quit writing science fiction and went back to doing
engineering, design, and so forth for years and years. I perceived that there
were problems I like to, you know, social and technological problems that I like
to address more immediately than I could address them in science fiction. It
wasn't until some years later that I realized that I had almost nothing to say
about what was done with my abilities. Whatever ingenuity I might have was not
going to be used as I chose but as the administrations chose, as long as I
worked for some large company. And so I got more and more out of that, did more
and more design work, development of all kinds of notions in my home lab. Not
just building racing cars but developing the fiberglass rivet technique,
developing a multi-manometric gauge gadget that you could put on a prototype
automobile. And drive the car at various speeds on a freeway and get wind tunnel
data from it. Things like that. I simply wanted to do it and I never had much
opportunity to get anything out of it through the industries that I worked in.
So I decided to head for those guys. I would do all my work on my own. Okay,
listen, in the sources available to me, I don't think I know about those early
stories of yours, those early ones for Astounding. What year are you talking
about? Let's see. My first published story was early in 1955. I wrote it in 54.
It was called Tight Squeeze. And I know it's in several compilations of stories
back in the 50s. And about a year and a half later, I guess the summer of 56, I
wrote one. I had one published, it is, called Red Rover. Now, Red Rover has been
reprinted in an anthology about two years ago. But Tight Squeeze, I believe, has
never been reprinted, which is not too surprising as a story. It isn't all that
good. As a suggestion of the kind of problems that a mechanic was liable to have
in free fall, working in an orbital situation. It was, I think, a pretty good
story. So let's say that it was good as a technological flip note, but it was
not particularly good as a story. And that was in 55 and 56. I quit writing then
for almost 20 years because I had sent another story, which was clearly a fake
piece, clearly a complaint about the way we were centralizing in bigger and
bigger cities. The story I wrote, which I can't even recall the name of now, it
was turned down by Horace Gold at Galaxy. And Horace's scribbled complaint to me
was that it was terrific storytelling, but not much of a story. That I was, it
was perfectly clear that I was up on a, on a soapbox, haranguing the reader. And
Horace was just entertaining, that's all he wanted. Well, that made me mad. I
didn't think that my particular position in life was as an entertainer. And I
realized if I couldn't make the things that I had to say interesting enough, so
that I could entertain and inform at the same time, then I wouldn't write. And
that's the truth. I couldn't. I didn't know the craft that well at the time. I
could either entertain you or I could write some information down. I could write
some information down and hold it. Stop. Just a minute there. I'll think about
this and rephrase it. And I could
either entertain you and give the reader what he wanted and not do anything I
wanted to do. Or I could try to inform the reader and satisfy myself and not
give the reader what he wanted. That is not a very good way to do it. Let's face
it. The reader is the one who must be satisfied first. He's the person who paid
his money for the, uh, for the entertainment. So I need to entertain about 90%
first and inform no more than 10%.
Okay, good. You anticipated one of my next questions anyhow with that one. That
was good. Much of your fiction, at least your later fiction, is set in the late
1980s, 1990s. And I wonder why you're picking that time period so much. I think
that the 80s and 90s give me a whole lot more clarity. It's really tough to see
what's going on, to have much of a clear vision as to what's going to happen 30
or 40 years from now. I have, um, over the 1950s, I've had some fairly clear
notions as to what, uh, the future would hold. And I have a pretty good batting
average on that. But just for one example, to look at the, um, oh, my very short
and not very, uh, important career in sports car racing, I quit after two or
three years and wrote some letters, open letters to editors and so on, of the
racing fraternity saying that our overuse of gasoline and this waste of energy
was really not in the best interest of the human race and we were all going to
be sorry for it. This was in 1961 and 62. And I set about trying to demonstrate
how much better machines we could have than we did have. Well, the cars that I
built, one of them is out in my garage right now. It looks like next year's
bullshit and it's 20 years old. My perceptions of what was going to happen 15,
20, 25 years in the future, um, have been fairly good and I would rather write
about things that I feel more firmly, uh, familiar with. It's just awfully hard
for me to figure out what's going to happen in the year 2010, let's say.
However, I, you know, I am working on it. Okay, all of your stories, it seems to
me, novels, novellas, whatever, they're all built around a very strong subject
or theme, such things as the media or terrorism or nuclear war and so forth. And
I wondered which comes first when you start a book. Does the subject come first
and then you look for characters and style and so forth or do the characters
come or how do you go about it? I'm in it the first time, Daryl. Um, it is the
theme usually that comes first. I have on occasion, sometimes just as an
exercise or sometimes just for fun or because a friend will have asked, will ask
me to do so. You know, like, um, there is an anthology that Larry Niven did
based on his book called The Magic Goes Away. And I don't do much fantasy.
But Larry's, uh, fantasy was a very clever one, a very good one. It even had a,
in a sense, a scientific basis for magic. And, uh, he asked me to do a story
for, um, for a sequel. And I was very happy to do that. But it's one of the few
stories that I've written that, in which I did not have a, uh, what I consider
an important theme to start with. So, as you first, uh, suggested, yes, I'll
usually take a theme, then build plot and characters that go along with it.
Okay, good. Um, I was surprised what you said about Horace Gold's comment on
that story because my impression of your, your writing is that it's extremely
fast-paced and exciting. When I pick up one of your books, I can hardly put it
down until it's done. And I wondered if that skill is, or that bio, whatever, is
something you've acquired or worked at, or does it come naturally to you? I
worked my buns off to get it, actually, Daryl. You've got to remember that I
did get my, uh, my doctorate in communication theory. And media theory is a, um,
fairly good-sized flood of that. And studying men like William Stevenson and his
play theory of mass communication and so taught me a lot about the kind of
entertainment that, um, that an audience is liable to focus on. So, again, as
you said, it's something that I had to work at. It didn't just come naturally.
In fact, it still doesn't just come naturally. I have to, uh, sometimes go back
and say, now, wait a minute, this is, yeah, this is what I was wanting to say,
all right, but my God, nobody would be interested. It's dull. Now I've got to go
back and figure a way to, uh, to make it interesting. If I can do that 90% or 95
% entertainment in a story, I know I can get away with putting in 5% message.
Okay, that's a good proportion. It works, I think. Yeah, it does. However, uh,
there is a book just about to come out. In fact, it should be out by the time
this paper is aired. It's called Pulling Through. And, uh, that is a novel in
which, oh, I must have 20% information in there and only 80% entertainment. But
it is, again, extremely fat-paced. I've set a, um, a nuclear survival scenario
in the context of a great big, um, overbearing and overwhelming bounty hunter in
California. The kind of guy who, uh, you know, goes around with weapons all the
time and has a fairly high-tech environment. He's a man that, uh, around whom
things just happen and they happen fast. But the book is probably 20%
information. It's, I guess, the most, uh, thoroughly information-packed novel
I've ever written. And, uh, the reviews that are just coming out are very nice
reviews. And so far, I haven't heard anybody complain that it's dull. But that
is, I think, the biggest risk I take. Yeah, I knew that book was coming out,
Pulling Through. I'm sorry to say I couldn't find a copy. That, by any chance,
that's not a sequel with, uh, Quantrill in it, is it, from Systemic Shop? Uh,
Pulling Through is a, is a short novel on nuclear survival in the San Francisco
Bay Area. And the short novel is followed in the same book by five articles, non
-fiction articles, detailing some of the gadgetry and techniques that these
people use to stay alive. So that it is not only a fast-paced, short novel, but
it is also a manual of nuclear survival. All of that in a single paperback.
Good, I'll be waiting to get my hands on one of those. I knew it was coming, I
just haven't been able to find a copy. Well, I haven't seen one yet either,
Daryl. It's probably, uh, maybe two weeks in the future before it'll hit the
stand. Yeah, okay, let me focus down on some particular works then. All right.
What was the, uh, the impetus behind, uh, Anasazi? Well, for many years, I've
been interested in American, North American and Central American, uh,
archaeology and anthropology. My master's degree was in American Indian science
arts. I had been in the, uh, Anasazi area numerous times and was aware of this
mystery that still exists as to why those people moved down to the Anasazi. In
fact, I should be more specific. The mystery as to why the American Indians who
lived near the cliff dwellings, why they moved down under those cliffs and made
those cliff dwellings to begin with. We know why they left, uh, why they
abandoned the cliff dwellings because of a great drought that was starving the
mouth for 25 years or so. We know about the unbroken, um, tradition of, uh, life
in that area for centuries and centuries before they built the cliff dwellings.
We still do not know. We do not know today why they built those dwellings
themselves. It would seem, well, perhaps they were afraid of something. They
were retreating from something. Yet we have no, uh, significant information as
to what they were retreating from. Well, it was my idea to set up a scenario
that would explain why these people abandoned their homes, their accessible
places up on top of the Mesa's, and moved down into a sort of defensive
fortification. And, um, since I enjoyed visiting that part of the country, you
know, like Villa Pueblo, Acoma, um, Mesa Verde, uh, Isleta, Daniel Defonso,
Santa Clara, all the Pueblos in that area. Uh, I enjoyed it a lot, and this gave
me a chance to do, uh, to re-familiarize myself with some research, to go back
into the area and, um, write a story that tied in so completely with facts.
Facts that archaeologists already know that it might be a little hard sometimes, or say, undergrad students to decide which is back and which is fiction.
Okay, you mentioned to me once before when I talked to you last time that there were some things you had in that book that hadn't even been come out yet.
Is there some kind of research you did that hadn't even been noticed by anybody or something?
uh, research that a friend of mine had done. He's an anthropologist. Uh, it was
not that nobody had done it. It was that it hadn't been published yet. Uh, a
friend of mine who was doing his doctoral dissertation on witchcraft rituals in
Taos Pueblo. And, uh, I was aware of all this, and I had, uh, access to his tape
recordings. And while he was setting about the early stages of his doctoral
dissertation, I was already reading those tapes, making notes and so on, so that
the book, uh, Anasazi, which came out before his dissertation did, had
information that was not in the literature yet. What it amounted to was that I
had tomorrow morning's newspaper, and when you have tomorrow morning's
newspaper, you always seem smarter than you are. Okay, good. Um, in one way,
this work was different from, uh, most of your other later writing, in that it
had the, uh, aliens in it, the alien menace theme, and I guess an old stand by a
science fiction, the bug-eyed monster thing. Oh, yeah. Uh, was that just a plot
device to, uh, to explain the, this Anasazi problem, or was it something you
just deliberately chose for some other reason? I'm not sure how to answer that,
Daryl. Um, they were the most likely answer I could think of to make it a horror
story about a kind of possession, uh, that would possess American Indian kid and
turn this thing from a science fiction western detective love story into a
science fiction western love horror story. I wanted to try to do just about
everything in a very short novel. It was, uh, an exercise in part to see how
many kinds of a story I could write without, uh, making it seem jumbled. I
couldn't think of anything more, um, logical than to build upon, very obviously,
Hal Clement's story, Needle. If you remember, Hal Clement wrote the story about
a blob-like creature that lived within a human host. And, uh, Robert Heinlein's
story, The Puppet Master. Now, uh, let's see. I'm fairly sure that, uh, Hal
Clement did his first. Right. And, uh, Heinlein's story was next. And I decided
if I were going to, uh, to leapfrog on the marvelous creatures they had
invented, the least I could do was to take it a bit further. And if I didn't
take it a bit further, um, I was really only, only lifting ideas. So I used
these horrific creatures and, um, took their psychology a bit further than I
thought previous authors had done that.
Right, okay, um, at the end of the, at least at the end of the, uh, edition I
have, you have what you call the post-luti, which indicates maybe some kind of
sequel. Have you planned anything in that area? No, the post-luti is really just
a Latin phrase for after game. Rather than, uh, talking about work to, uh, to
come, talking about, well, talking to the reader, really, about playing with,
with ideas about the characters and settings after the story is over. So my post
-luti were really simply little devices to ask the reader to, uh, to create his
own story. Based on what they just finished. I thought it would be a lot of fun
for the reader. I don't intend to write those stories myself. Yeah, it was fun.
It got me to thinking. That's, that's why I mentioned it. Um, one thing that's
always, uh, kept me fascinated in your work is, is the way you extrapolate. Uh,
some of your stories, to me at least, are pretty strictly extrapolated from,
from present technology and ideas. And you're right, really. And that's where
the, the least, um, the least ingenuity, I would say, is shown. Um, you know, I
show less ingenuity there than I, uh, would show in other areas simply because I
am, as you say, fairly strictly extrapolated.
Yeah, and one, one story in particular, I'm not sure if, if this was
extrapolated or not. That's why I was going to ask about it. Um, the story that
was included with Anasazi in the, in the latest edition of it, the, uh, portions
of this program. Right. This idea of precognition or something, are there, is
that possible? Are there studies in this area that you were working with? I
actually developed that idea based on some, uh, term papers that a couple of
young women had sent in to me. Uh, even though the university where I taught
back in the Midwest was pretty repressive on me, the working with the students
was really marvelous. And, um, I encouraged them to go beyond where we had been
going in, in a psycholinguistics class, for example. And they did. And two of
those papers skirted the idea of, um, certain chemical therapies that would help
solve certain problems like infant schizophrenia. And, uh, since the young
women's papers did go beyond what I knew, I started checking back and reading
all of their, uh, all their footnotes, citations, and stuff, and found what was,
what sounded to me like a possibility for curing certain kinds of autistic, uh,
behavior. Well, I had to, it was just a drive in me to see if I couldn't, um,
get this scenario of mind, this hypothesis studied by people who's, uh, who work
all the time with speech pathology. Well, I talked to speech pathologists who
said, yes, this is a very possible, uh, hypothesis. It may very well be true.
But, of course, I haven't got time to do it. And, of course, you're not a
pathologist, so you could never get published in any little quarterly journals
anyway. So, see, I'm afraid we're not going to ever have anything done about
this. And I said, the hell it won't. I wrote a biofiction story, um, giving
chapter and verse in the story about the real, um, research that had been done
back in the 60s. So that if anyone who deals with, uh, pathological
communication happens to notice that those very real citations, it might spur,
um, some new research. And apparently it did. Yeah, I figured those were actual
references. Um. Yes, you're right. Listen, there was one thing you did in that
story, which to me was very un-ing-like. I hadn't noticed this in any of your
other work. It seems you... Un-ing-like. Well, that's a good thing. You almost
have a, well, it seems to be a possibility of time travel with that guy, Fox,
who comes in there. Ah. You mean that, that in does not do much in time travel?
Right. You're right. I usually don't because it has never, um, seemed to me that
it is a very sensible... It's so paradoxical that I think it might very well be
impossible. You know, a few things may very well be permanently impossible. And
time travel, well, I don't happen to be a believer in time travel, that's all.
I, I have no, uh, uh, I don't think I could say I'm certain it can't happen. Of
course not. But it's just not one of those things that I consider all that
likely. However, um, I'm certainly not above giving a hint of it once in a
while. But you're right, though. As a general rule, it is a kind of un-ing-like,
uh, uh, piece of a plot. However, maybe next year or year after that I may
decide to, uh, to play with it. Yeah, there have been some, I thought, some
excellent novels written recently on time travel. Hogan's, uh, Twice Upon a
Time, and, uh, what's the, uh, Timescape, I guess, by, um, Benford. Benford's
Timescape. I was, I was really, uh, fascinated by that. The alternate worlds
make, uh, a lot of sense. Well, I should say, seem to me to make a kind of
theoretical sense. And I can do it with alternate worlds, um, a little better.
It's hard for me to write a thing which I don't believe. That's one of the
reasons why I don't do fantasy very much. Okay, what about that, uh, the story,
The Devil You Don't Know? Now, uh, where did your interest in mental
institutions come from? Again, that was a story, a, not a story, really. It was
a paper by a student of mine that discussed the dreadful conditions in some
mental institutions. This was back in the, um, early to mid-70s when this young
woman handed me his paper. And I was really appalled. And by doing some
checking, I found that, uh, she was right in every respect. And I thought it was
time that, uh, someone did some fiction along that line to point out the
possibilities for, um, to point out how likely it was that some mental
institutions were being, uh, really mishandled, that the patients were being
maltreated, um, that nothing very fruitful was going to ever come out of them.
And so I wrote the story. Uh, in that story, of course, uh, you write about, uh,
I'm not sure of the pronunciation. Is it Maffei, Chris Maffei? Yeah, Maffei.
Okay, um, your characters are so real to me that I can't help but think that
they're being modeled on real people. And I wonder if that's true. No, actually,
Maffei is as much a creature of whole cloth as anybody. Um, there are, of
course, partial patches of people that I cram together to make, uh, to make
characters. I have noticed, uh, in academia that, uh, while, of course, I value
academic, the academic life quite a bit, I would certainly not have tried to
take it on about the age of 40 if I didn't, uh, value it a lot. But, uh, the,
uh, the single-minded, really lonesome kind of, uh, selfishness that some
scholars have, they just, you know, just appalled me. They're not really doing
this work because of anybody else. They're doing it because, uh, they want to
rise in this, uh, academic priesthood. And Maffei is that kind of name. He is
both the best and the worst, uh, of academia put together in the same name. He's
gutsy. He's extremely intelligent. He's active. But he's also outrageously
selfish. And he will sacrifice anybody to any degree for his own private, uh,
furthering of himself. What about Laura? Is her particular powers, I'm not sure
what you'd want to call them, telepathy or empathy or whatever. Is that, uh, is
that something you might believe in or is that just a wild idea? Well, I think
that there is some, um, some hope of that sort of thing being, uh, being legal.
I'm not a, a believer, capital D believer. But, um, I don't disbelieve either. I
think that that sort of thing might very well be possible.
Okay, let me move on here so I'm sure we'll have time to cover this. Uh, to move
on to your novel, Soft Targets. Um, would you call that science fiction? Would I
call which science fiction? Soft Targets. Yes, I do, because it's, it's
sociological science fiction. Uh, there's engineering science fiction, you know,
hard sciences, um, with hardware. And there are the, let's say, quasi-sciences,
like psychology, sociology, and so on. Just as sure as 1984 was science fiction,
so was Soft Targets. It, uh, involved some scientific hypotheses about media
theory. That was truly the initial, um, the initial impetus for the story, was
this theme of what we could do about this uneasy marriage between terrorism and
television. That was a problem I saw in 1971. And I saw no solution for it that
would work in a free society until about 76, I guess. In 75 or 76, by still
mulling the idea over, mulling over the problem, I came across these, uh, these
little set of hypotheses about how you could use the model of warfare, you know,
the media going to war against the terrorists. And see what media do when they
go to war. What have they done in the past? How easy would it be to do it again?
Would it be effective? And, uh, my conclusions were, yes, it would be. So then I
wrote the novel. I didn't want to write the novel until I had, uh, a possible
solution. I didn't want to help terrorists do their thing. But by the time I
wrote it, terrorists were already starting to do their thing. Yeah, I guess the
reason I asked, if that was science fiction, it seems to me that you say it's
theory, uh, media theory and so forth. I would have thought that by now that's
probably pretty accepted. Isn't that about your ideas about the media and
terrorism? Not by the media people. It's not. They have, uh, the most selfish of
reasons not to want that to, uh, be considered true. And, of course, if they can
deny it, then they can continue being irresponsible. Which is, of course, what
they wanted to do all along. Um, a number of people in the top of our network
media, um, I know that they have come across soft targets. And they are none too
pleased with it. It suggests, um, a level of taking responsibility for one's
importance. You know, if the media is all that important, then isn't it time
they took a, um, they recognized their responsibilities to the public in more
profound ways. Well, uh, I say that it is time. They say that it's not. Their
intent is to make money. How is that book selling, you know? Say, how is it
selling? Yeah. It sold pretty well. It did not, uh, you know, it didn't go hog
wild. It sold, I would say, it sold well for a first novel. There were two
editions, and I believe Ace Books is going to be bringing out a third edition
sometime next year. Yeah, it seemed to me that that was such a, uh, a book on
such a vital contemporary issue. I thought it might, have you got any movie
rights or any interest there? As it happened, my 27-year-old daughter, who, uh,
works at Warner's down south and is an actress, um, she does have a treatment of
it. We have a couple of copies of the book. And, um, an actor named Joel Hughes
is also very high on the idea. And they're trying to, to, uh, offer that
treatment and the book to anyone who would, uh, pay attention to it. And, um, I
think, personally, the chances of it being made into a movie are perhaps one in
a hundred. The one thing, it, uh, it really lays too much blame. It's very
trenchant. It, uh, when I say too much, I mean for people in the media to be
comfortable about it. It, um,
it raises hell with the media leaders. For one thing, it's not liable to be the
kind of, uh, movie that would ever be shown on late-night television. Because it
takes television so much to task. Why does, why would the TV, uh, people want to
beat themselves about their head and shoulders by showing a movie that, uh,
snarls about their irresponsibility? Chances are they wouldn't. And when people
make movies these days, they, uh, are very clearly thinking about the TV rights
later on. Yeah, that book reminded me of another one. Uh, it's a very different
kind of book, but the idea, the power of the media is, uh, Spinrad's Bug Jack
Barron. That's Bug Jack Barron, yes. Yeah, that was a, uh, that was an interesting
one, all right. Yeah, okay, let me go on for just a few minutes here to Systemic
Shock. Um, was that book hard to write? Oh, Lord. You, uh, you've asked a lot of
questions that, uh, I have to answer yes to, so you, you must have redone your
homework. Yeah, it took me years to get all the background from it. Uh,
especially with, uh, Asians and, uh, the Indian subcontinent on Asia, all of the
variables,
the social, geopolitical variables of that, uh, book were enough to drive me
crazy. I talked for historians, and in the case of India, um, more than any
other case, I think, whatever I suggested as a scenario for the future, uh,
every historian that I would talk to, um, would say, oh, no, uh, every social
scientist, no, this can't happen because X, Y, or Z. Well, if that's not, if
that won't happen, then how about this? No, no, that can't happen. In short,
none of them would ever, um, be willing to speculate on what's going to happen
to India. And, um, I pretty much had to work that up out of whole cloth. So I
had four drawer file cabinets and, uh, oh, perhaps 500 textbooks by the time I
was done putting it all together. Yeah, the, uh, the work you put into that, to
me, was obvious. Uh, I take it, then, that your, your scenario, your
extrapolation is pretty seriously done, and in terms of what you think could
happen. Well, yes, so seriously enough that some of my friends, uh, are friends
of mine because, as political scientists or, uh, physicists or whatever, they
read the book, they read the book and said, oof, an awful lot of, uh, um, of
scholarly research has gone into this fund again, and then we would meet
somewhere and, uh, get to be a good friend. That doesn't say much about the
popularity of a book, although, uh, Systemic Shock has been a bestseller, in
science fiction terms, anyway. But it does say a lot about, uh, whether or not
the work I did is appreciated by, uh, by experts. And it does seem to be
appreciated by experts. That's the, the thing that gets to them the most is
that, um, the existing problems of, of, of Islam, of India, of how Japan and,
uh, and China are going to work out. The problems that the United States will
have, the problems that the Soviets will have 20 years from now, et cetera.
That, uh, that it simply grips all those bulls by the horns and wrestles them
all at the same time. You know, how likely all this stuff is, who knows? But,
uh, at least I did wrestle with all those problems and find a kind of jigsaw
puzzle that they would fit into. Yeah, you did it. Well, it was a jigsaw puzzle.
You aren't, by any chance, a military strategist or buff in that area, are you?
Well... In a small way, yes. Yes. And Reginald Bretner, who is a, one of the
better known science fiction writers and, uh, writers about science fiction as
well as writers of science fiction. And, uh, Reg has done a, a book on military
strategy. There aren't just a whole lot of military strategists around.
Certainly not writing books. Reg is one of them. Um, I listen to him a lot. And,
uh, of course I follow the stuff in his library from time to time. So, yes,
strategy is of some interest to me. Okay, listen, we have to switch the tape
here. Can you give me about 10 or 15 minutes more after we switch it? Yeah, I
feel like. Yeah. Uh, we just gotta change the tape. We finished it.